All the things that Comprehend, Rekognition, Textract, Polly, Transcribe and others do (#424)
build-on-aws/content: posts/all-the-things-that-comprehend-rekognition-textract-polly-transcribe-and-others-do/index.md

🔎  Translate | Translate unstructured text (UTF-8) documents or to build applications that work in [multiple languages](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/translate/latest/dg/what-is-languages.html) | [Amazon Translate](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/translate/latest/dg/what-is.html)| 

## 🚀  Use Cases 

Best way to learn programming is by solving problems through code development,  same thing happens when you want to learn how to use a service, you need to use it to learn. These four use cases are real (and made-up) problems that I solved while learning.

> - [Create subtitles and translate them into the language you want ⏯️ 🍿.](https://github.com/build-on-aws/aiml-like-api-in-your-app/blob/main/create-subtitles-and-translate-them-into-the-language-you-want/README.md)

Reviewer: I would number these with a number next to the title  - ex. "1." or "Use-Case 1:"

> - [Create subtitles and translate them into the language you want ⏯️ 🍿.](https://github.com/build-on-aws/aiml-like-api-in-your-app/blob/main/create-subtitles-and-translate-them-into-the-language-you-want/README.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use case 1: [Create subtitles and translate them into the language you want ⏯️ 🍿.](https://github.com/build-on-aws/aiml-like-api-in-your-app/blob/main/create-subtitles-and-translate-them-into-the-language-you-want/README.md)
```

> If you are passionate about providing video with tools for others to learn, you want to reach as many people as possible, and language is a barrier that you can remove with this app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're passionate about utilizing video as a tool for education, it would be ideal to reach as many people as possible. One common barrier to this is language. This application enables you to create subtitles and translate them into any desired language, to remove this barrier.
```

![Create subtitles and translate them into the language you want"](images/create-subtitles-and-translate-s.png)

1. Upload the .mp4 video to an [Amazon s3 bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/es_es/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/UsingBucket.html).
2. A Lambda Function makes the call to Transcribe API.
3. Subtitles file in the original language are downloaded to S3 Bucket. 
4. A Lambda Function makes the call to Translate API.
5. Subtitles file in the new language is downloaded to S3 Bucket. 

Code to create [this solution](https://github.com/build-on-aws/aiml-like-api-in-your-app/blob/main/create-subtitles-and-translate-them-into-the-language-you-want/README.md). 

> - [Detecting entities and sentiment from a document 🔎 📄.](https://github.com/build-on-aws/aiml-like-api-in-your-app/tree/main/detecting-entities-and-sentiment-from-a-document%20)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Use case 2: [Detecting entities and sentiment from a document 🔎 📄.](https://github.com/build-on-aws/aiml-like-api-in-your-app/tree/main/detecting-entities-and-sentiment-from-a-document%20)
```

> There are people who have mountains of papers in their homes, letters from past lovers, medical exams, memories of their children’s school, banks, etc. What do you think of saving it neatly in the cloud? Try and learn about Textract and Comprehend with this app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many people possess piles of documents at home, ranging from letters from past lovers to medical records, children's school memorabilia, and bank statements, etc. Wouldn't it be convenient to neatly store these in the cloud? Explore and learn about the functionalities of Textract and Comprehend with this app.
```

![Detecting entities and sentiment from a document"](images/detecting-entities-and-sentiment.png)

1. Upload the document (PNG, JPG, PDF or TIFF) to an S3 Bucket.
2. A Lambda Function makes the call to Textract API.
3. With the response from Textract, Lambda Function makes the call to Comprehend API. 
4. A Lambda Function makes the call to the Translate API.
5. The response is saved in an S3 bucket. 

Code to create [this solution]((https://github.com/build-on-aws/aiml-like-api-in-your-app/tree/main/detecting-entities-and-sentiment-from-a-document%20))

> - [Make Polly Talk 🦜](https://github.com/build-on-aws/aiml-like-api-in-your-app/tree/main/make-polly-talk)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Use case 3:  [Make Polly Talk 🦜](https://github.com/build-on-aws/aiml-like-api-in-your-app/tree/main/make-polly-talk)
```

I was curious how an Italian speaking Chinese sounded, and since Polly has native voices for each language I created this notebook to play 😂.

![Make Polly Talk"](images/make-polly-talk.png)

1. From a Jupyter Notebook make the call to Polly API.
2. Polly stores the result in a S3 bucket.
3. Retrieves the audio.

Code to create [this solution ](https://github.com/build-on-aws/aiml-like-api-in-your-app/tree/main/make-polly-talk)

> - [Video content moderation ⏯️ 🔫 🚬](https://github.com/build-on-aws/aiml-like-api-in-your-app/tree/main/video-content-moderation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Use case 4:  [Video content moderation ⏯️ 🔫 🚬](https://github.com/build-on-aws/aiml-like-api-in-your-app/tree/main/video-content-moderation)
```

I´m fan of action movies and wanted to try Rekognition with the trailer of Die Hard 1, so I created this application and wow! each dataframe is pure violence 🫣... I invite you to try it with a trailer of your favorite movie.

![Video content moderation"](images/video-content-moderation.png)

1. Upload the .mp4 video to an [s3 bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/es_es/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/UsingBucket.html).
2. A Lambda Function makes the call to Rekognition API.
3. Once the video review is finished, a new Lambda Function retrieves the result and stores it in an s3 bucket.

Code to create [this solution ](https://github.com/build-on-aws/aiml-like-api-in-your-app/tree/main/video-content-moderation)

## Conclusion

> Now you learned that you can use AIML as an API call to analyze images and videos, detection and analysis of text in scanned documents, analyze text using NLP to extract sentiment from dominant language and much more. In addition to being able to convert text to speech, and vice versa, and a language translator within reach of an API call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You've now learned that AIML can be used via an API call to perform a variety of tasks such as analyzing images and videos, detecting and analyzing text in scanned documents, and leveraging Natural Language Processing (NLP) to extract sentiment from dominant languages, among many other things. In addition, you have the capability to convert text to speech and vice versa, and to utilize a language translator, all within the reach of a single API call.
```

> This is just a small part of what you can create by powering AIML applications within the reach of an API call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This just scratches the surface of what can be achieved by leveraging AIML applications via API calls.
```

> Surely you have a real or invented problem that you would like to solve using one of these services and if not I leave these links for you to continue experimenting and learning:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No doubt, there's a real or hypothetical problem you'd like to address using one of these services. Even if you don't have one in mind, I've provided these links for you to continue experimenting and learning:
```
